Replace new-command.md with skills (#2709)
microsoft/mcp: .github/skills/add-mcp-tools/SKILL.md

| **test-resources.bicep** | ✅ Required | ❌ Skip |
| **test-resources-post.ps1** | ✅ Required (even if basic) | ❌ Skip |
| **RBAC role assignments** | ✅ Required | ❌ Skip |
| **Live tests** | ✅ Required (recorded) | ❌ Skip |
| **Unit tests** | ✅ Required | ✅ Required |

---

## Phase 0: New Toolset Setup (skip if adding to existing toolset)

Create the toolset directory structure:

```
tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}/
├── src/
│   ├── Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.csproj
│   ├── {Toolset}Setup.cs
│   ├── Commands/
│   │   ├── {Resource}/
│   │   │   └── {Resource}{Operation}Command.cs
│   │   └── {Toolset}JsonContext.cs
│   ├── Options/
│   │   └── {Resource}/
│   │       └── {Resource}{Operation}Options.cs
│   ├── Services/
│   │   ├── I{Toolset}Service.cs
│   │   └── {Toolset}Service.cs
│   └── Models/
└── tests/
    ├── Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests/
    │   └── Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests.csproj
    ├── test-resources.bicep          (Azure service commands only)
    └── test-resources-post.ps1       (Azure service commands only)
```

Required setup steps:

1. Add package version to `Directory.Packages.props` (if Azure SDK needed)

> 2. Add project to `Microsoft.Mcp.slnx` and `Azure.Mcp.Server.slnx`

Reviewer: Should have this use `eng/scripts/Update-Solutions.ps1 -All` to handle this rather than it attempting to do it on its own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 2. Register the project in solution files by running:
    `powershell eng/scripts/Update-Solutions.ps1 -Al`
```

3. Register the new toolset in `servers/Azure.Mcp.Server/src/Program.cs` `RegisterAreas()` (alphabetical order)

> 4. For the primary pattern, have commands inherit directly from `SubscriptionCommand<TOptions, TResult>` and inject `ISubscriptionResolver`. Only add a shared base command if you have real cross-command logic.

Reviewer: nit: `SubscriptionCommand` should be used when the tool needs a subscription to work, some tools don't. This should be branching logic to determine that. It's fine for now to bootstrap but reviewers should keep that in mind.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 4. Choose the appropriate base class:
    - **Commands that need an Azure subscription** (most Azure service tools) → inherit from `SubscriptionCommand<TOptions, TResult>` and inject `ISubscriptionResolver`.
    - **Commands that do NOT need a subscription** (CLI wrappers, documentation tools, best-practice advisors) → inherit from `BaseCommand<TOptions, TResult>` directly.
 
    Only add a shared intermediate base command if you have real cross-command logic shared by multiple commands in the same toolset.
```

public class {Resource}{Operation}Options : ISubscriptionOption
{
    [Option("Description of what this option does (e.g., 'The name of the resource').")]
    public string? MyOption { get; set; }

    [Option(OptionDescriptions.ResourceGroup)]
    public string? ResourceGroup { get; set; }

    [Option(OptionDescriptions.Subscription)]
    public string? Subscription { get; set; }

    [Option(OptionDescriptions.Tenant)]
    public string? Tenant { get; set; }

    [Option(Name = "retry")]
    public RetryPolicyOptions? RetryPolicy { get; set; }
}
```

Rules:
- Implement `ISubscriptionOption` for commands that need subscription resolution
- Use `[Option("description")]` for the description — property name auto-converts to `--kebab-case`
- Use `[Option(Name = "custom")]` only when the default kebab-case conversion is wrong (e.g., `RetryPolicy` → `--retry` not `--retry-policy`)
- Use `[Option(OptionDescriptions.X)]` for shared descriptions (`Subscription`, `Tenant`, `ResourceGroup`, `AuthMethod`)
- Use `subscription` (never `subscriptionId`) — supports both IDs and names
- Use `resourceGroup` (never `resourceGroupName`)
- Use singular nouns for resources (`server` not `serverName`)

> - Remove unnecessary `-name` suffixes (`--account` not `--account-name`)

Reviewer: Should also give the example of the property name too.

```suggestion
- Remove unnecessary `name` suffixes (`Account` / `--account` not `AccountName` / `--account-name`)
```

> - Nullability determines required/optional: `string?` = optional, `required string` = required

Reviewer: A follow-up is needed here as some types are allowed without `required`, such as `public int Count { get; set; }`. Need to see if we want `required` to denote when a parameter is `required` in the tool call.

This isn't something to be solved in this PR but something I noticed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Nullability determines required/optional for reference types: `string?` = optional, `required string` = required
- Non-nullable value types (e.g., `public int Count { get; set; }`) are always valid without `required` — they default to `0`. Use `required` if the caller must explicitly provide a value, or use `int?` if the parameter should be truly optional.
```

- Order: command-specific options first, then `ResourceGroup`, `Subscription`, `Tenant`, `AuthMethod`, `RetryPolicy`
- Keep parameter names consistent with Azure SDK parameters when possible

> > **Note:** In the new pattern, a static `{Toolset}OptionDefinitions` class is **not required** for simple option declaration. Options are defined via attributes. However, you may still create one for reusable `Option<T>` instances used in custom validators (see Legacy Pattern appendix for details).

Reviewer: Personally, I don't think we want to talk about the legacy pattern. You can mix-and-match patterns in the same tool area, we should only include best practices (the new pattern)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 > **Note:** Options are defined entirely via `[Option]` attributes.
 > A static `{Toolset}OptionDefinitions` class is not needed
```

### 1c. Service Interface and Implementation

File: `src/Services/I{Toolset}Service.cs`

Return type depends on operation type:
- **Resource Graph queries** → `Task<ResourceQueryResults<MyModel>>` (includes `AreResultsTruncated` flag)
- **Data plane operations** → `Task<List<MyModel>>`
- **Write operations** → `Task<MyResultModel>`

```csharp
public interface I{Toolset}Service
{
    // Resource Graph read operation
    Task<ResourceQueryResults<MyModel>> GetResourcesAsync(
        string? myOption,
        string subscription,
        string? resourceGroup = null,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);

    // Data plane operation (returns simple List)
    Task<List<MyDetail>> GetDetailsAsync(
        string resourceName,
        string subscription,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
}
```

File: `src/Services/{Toolset}Service.cs`

Choose base class:

> - **Read operations (Resource Graph):** inherit `BaseAzureResourceService`

Reviewer: `BaseAzureResourceService` extends `BaseAzureService`, neither is bound to read or write operations. Instead `BaseAzureResourceService` is needed is Resource Graph (ARG) querying functionality is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - **Operations that need Resource Graph (ARG) queries:** inherit `BaseAzureResourceService`
 - **All other operations (ARM, data plane):** inherit `BaseAzureService`
 
 > `BaseAzureResourceService` extends `BaseAzureService` — neither is
 > inherently read-only or write-only. The distinction is whether you
 > need ARG querying functionality.
```

        string subscription,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        var subscriptionResource = await _subscriptionService.GetSubscription(subscription, tenant, retryPolicy);

        // CRITICAL: Use GetResourceGroupAsync with await
        var rgResource = await subscriptionResource.GetResourceGroupAsync(resourceGroup, cancellationToken);
        var resource = await rgResource.Value
            .GetMyResources()
            .GetAsync(resourceName, cancellationToken: cancellationToken);
        return resource.Value;
    }
}
```

Sovereign cloud rules:
- ARM/Resource Graph operations: cloud-aware automatically, no extra work
- Data plane endpoints: use `_tenantService.CloudConfiguration.CloudType` switch — never hardcode URLs

**Data plane endpoint pattern** (required for services like Storage, Cosmos, Search):

```csharp
public class MyService(ISubscriptionService subscriptionService, ITenantService tenantService)
    : BaseAzureResourceService(subscriptionService, tenantService), IMyService
{
    private readonly ITenantService _tenantService = tenantService

>         ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(tenantService));

Reviewer: Don't recommend storing a field for `ITenantService`, since this class extends from `BaseAzureService` use the `TenantService` property available from the base class. (Which it seems your code example below is doing partially)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- **DO NOT** log `{@Options}` — may expose sensitive information

**Custom validation** (if needed beyond nullability checks):
```csharp
public override void ValidateOptions({Resource}{Operation}Options options, ValidationResult validationResult)
{
    base.ValidateOptions(options, validationResult);  // checks --subscription

    if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(options.MyRequiredField))
    {
        validationResult.Errors.Add("--my-required-field is required.");
    }
}
```

**Intermediate base commands** (only if you have shared cross-command logic):
```csharp
// Use interface constraints for type-safe access to shared options
public abstract class Base{Toolset}Command<
    [DynamicallyAccessedMembers(TrimAnnotations.CommandAnnotations)] TOptions, TResult>(
    ISubscriptionResolver subscriptionResolver)
    : SubscriptionCommand<TOptions, TResult>(subscriptionResolver)
    where TOptions : class, ISubscriptionOption, I{Toolset}Option
{
    public override void ValidateOptions(TOptions options, ValidationResult validationResult)
    {
        base.ValidateOptions(options, validationResult);
        // Shared validation using options.SharedProperty
    }
}
```

> ```

Reviewer: Extra set of ticks, breaks subsequent code blocks

```suggestion
```

### 1e. JSON Serialization Context

File: `src/Commands/{Toolset}JsonContext.cs`

```csharp
[JsonSerializable(typeof({Resource}{Operation}Command.{Resource}{Operation}CommandResult))]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(MyModel))]
[JsonSourceGenerationOptions(
    PropertyNamingPolicy = JsonKnownNamingPolicy.CamelCase,
    DefaultIgnoreCondition = JsonIgnoreCondition.WhenWritingNull)]
internal partial class {Toolset}JsonContext : JsonSerializerContext;
```

Guidelines:
- Only include types actually serialized as top-level result payloads
- Keep `[JsonSerializable]` attributes sorted by `typeof` model name

> - Use one context per toolset (preferred) unless size forces logical grouping

Reviewer: I think we should just use one `Context` always, having multiple just makes finding things more complicated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use one context per toolset always
```

    }

    public CommandGroup RegisterCommands(IServiceProvider serviceProvider)
    {
        var root = new CommandGroup(Name,
            """
            {Toolset} operations - description of what this toolset covers.
            """,
            Title);

        var resource = new CommandGroup("{resource}", "{Resource} operations description");
        root.AddSubGroup(resource);
        resource.AddCommand<{Resource}{Operation}Command>(serviceProvider);

        return root;
    }
}
```

Also register the toolset in `servers/Azure.Mcp.Server/src/Program.cs`:
```csharp
private static IAreaSetup[] RegisterAreas()
{
    return [
        // ... existing toolsets (alphabetical order) ...
        new Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.{Toolset}Setup(),
        // ... more toolsets ...
    ];
}
```

The `RegisterAreas()` list **must remain alphabetically sorted** (excluding the `#if !BUILD_NATIVE` block).

Command group naming: concatenated lowercase or dash-separated. Never underscores.
- ✅ Good: `"entraadmin"`, `"resourcegroup"`, `"storageaccount"`, `"entra-admin"`
- ❌ Bad: `"entra_admin"`, `"resource_group"`, `"storage_account"`

> Command hierarchy anti-patterns:

Reviewer: This section is called `anti-patterns` then shows both good and bad patterns. Might want to rename this slightly.

Reviewer 2: updated

            Arg.Any<string?>(), Arg.Any<string>(), Arg.Any<string?>(),
            Arg.Any<string?>(), Arg.Any<RetryPolicyOptions?>(),
            Arg.Any<CancellationToken>())
            .ThrowsAsync(new Exception("Test error"));

        var response = await ExecuteCommandAsync("--subscription", "sub123", "--my-option", "val");

        Assert.Equal(HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError, response.Status);
        Assert.Contains("Test error", response.Message);
        Assert.Contains("troubleshooting", response.Message);
    }

    [Fact]
    public async Task ExecuteAsync_HandlesNotFound()
    {
        Service.GetResourcesAsync(
            Arg.Any<string?>(), Arg.Any<string>(), Arg.Any<string?>(),
            Arg.Any<string?>(), Arg.Any<RetryPolicyOptions?>(),
            Arg.Any<CancellationToken>())
            .ThrowsAsync(new RequestFailedException((int)HttpStatusCode.NotFound, "Resource not found"));

        var response = await ExecuteCommandAsync("--subscription", "sub123", "--my-option", "val");

        Assert.Equal(HttpStatusCode.NotFound, response.Status);
        Assert.Contains("Resource not found", response.Message);
    }
}
```

> **Critical: Use `SubscriptionCommandUnitTestsBase`** — not `CommandUnitTestsBase`. Without it, DI will fail with "Unable to resolve service for type `ISubscriptionResolver`".

Reviewer: Commands that don't extend from `SubscriptionCommand` are safe to use `CommandUnitTestBase`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Critical: Choose the correct test base class:**
 - Commands extending `SubscriptionCommand` → use `SubscriptionCommandUnitTestsBase<TCommand, TService>`
 - Commands extending `BaseCommand` directly (no subscription) → use `CommandUnitTestsBase<TCommand, TService>`
 
 Using the wrong base class will cause DI failures.
```

File: `tests/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests/{Toolset}CommandTests.cs`

```csharp
public class {Toolset}CommandTests(ITestOutputHelper output, TestProxyFixture fixture, LiveServerFixture liveServerFixture)
    : RecordedCommandTestsBase(output, fixture, liveServerFixture)
{
    [Fact]
    public async Task {Resource}{Operation}_ReturnsExpectedResult()
    {
        var result = await CallToolAsync(
            "{toolset}_{resource}_{operation}",
            new()
            {
                ["subscription"] = SubscriptionId,
                ["resource-group"] = ResourceGroupName,
            });

        Assert.NotNull(result);
        var items = result.Value.AssertProperty("items");
        Assert.Equal(JsonValueKind.Array, items.ValueKind);
    }
}
```

### 3c. Record and Verify

```powershell
# Record
$settings = @{ TestMode = "Record"; SubscriptionId = "<sub>"; TenantId = "<tenant>";
               ResourceGroupName = "<rg>"; ResourceBaseName = "<base>" } | ConvertTo-Json
$settings | Set-Content "tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests\.testsettings.json"

dotnet test tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests `

>   --filter "FullyQualifiedName~{Resource}{Operation}"

Reviewer: Have this call `eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 -TestResourcesDirectory /tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}` instead as that will run the real workflow.

Reviewer 2: updated

# Push recordings
.proxy\Azure.Sdk.Tools.TestProxy push `
  -a tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests\assets.json

# Verify playback
# Change TestMode to "Playback" in .testsettings.json, then re-run tests
```

> Create `assets.json` if it doesn't exist:

Reviewer: This should be done before the above.

```json
"EnvironmentVariables": {
    "AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS": "AzureCliCredential"
}
```
Ensure `az login --tenant <tenant-id>` is active. If recording fails with credential errors from the subprocess, this is the likely fix.

#### Redeploy if resource group is missing

Test resource groups are auto-deleted after 12 hours. If tests fail with `ResourceGroupNotFound`, redeploy:
```powershell
./eng/scripts/Deploy-TestResources.ps1 -Paths {Toolset}
```

### 3d. Test Project Configuration (Critical)

The test `.csproj` **must** have these specific settings or tests will fail with "azmcp.exe not found":

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>net10.0</TargetFramework>
    <ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>
    <Nullable>enable</Nullable>
    <IsPackable>false</IsPackable>
    <IsTestProject>true</IsTestProject>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
  </PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <ProjectReference Include="..\..\src\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.csproj" />

>     <ProjectReference Include="..\..\..\..\servers\Azure.Mcp.Server\src\Azure.Mcp.Server.csproj" />

Reviewer: Prefer
```suggestion
    <ProjectReference Include="$(RepoRoot)servers\Azure.Mcp.Server\src\Azure.Mcp.Server.csproj" />
```

---

> name: add-mcp-tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name: add-azure-mcp-tools
```

---

> name: add-azure-mcp-tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name: add-mcp-tools
```

    }

    public CommandGroup RegisterCommands(IServiceProvider serviceProvider)
    {
        var root = new CommandGroup(Name,
            """
            {Toolset} operations - description of what this toolset covers.
            """,
            Title);

        var resource = new CommandGroup("{resource}", "{Resource} operations description");
        root.AddSubGroup(resource);
        resource.AddCommand<{Resource}{Operation}Command>(serviceProvider);

        return root;
    }
}
```

Also register the toolset in `servers/Azure.Mcp.Server/src/Program.cs`:
```csharp
private static IAreaSetup[] RegisterAreas()
{
    return [
        // ... existing toolsets (alphabetical order) ...
        new Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.{Toolset}Setup(),
        // ... more toolsets ...
    ];
}
```

The `RegisterAreas()` list **must remain alphabetically sorted** (excluding the `#if !BUILD_NATIVE` block).

Command group naming: concatenated lowercase or dash-separated. Never underscores.
- ✅ Good: `"entraadmin"`, `"resourcegroup"`, `"storageaccount"`, `"entra-admin"`
- ❌ Bad: `"entra_admin"`, `"resource_group"`, `"storage_account"`

> Command hierarchy anti-patterns:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Command hierarchy patterns and anti-patterns:
```

```csharp
public class {Toolset}Service(ISubscriptionService subscriptionService, ITenantService tenantService)
    : BaseAzureService(tenantService), I{Toolset}Service
{
    private readonly ISubscriptionService _subscriptionService = subscriptionService
        ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(subscriptionService));

    public async Task<MyResource> CreateResourceAsync(
        string resourceName,
        string resourceGroup,
        string subscription,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        var subscriptionResource = await _subscriptionService.GetSubscription(subscription, tenant, retryPolicy);

        // CRITICAL: Use GetResourceGroupAsync with await
        var rgResource = await subscriptionResource.GetResourceGroupAsync(resourceGroup, cancellationToken);
        var resource = await rgResource.Value
            .GetMyResources()
            .GetAsync(resourceName, cancellationToken: cancellationToken);
        return resource.Value;
    }
}
```

Sovereign cloud rules:
- ARM/Resource Graph operations: cloud-aware automatically, no extra work

> - Data plane endpoints: use `_tenantService.CloudConfiguration.CloudType` switch — never hardcode URLs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Data plane endpoints: use `TenantService.CloudConfiguration.CloudType` switch — never hardcode URLs
```

**Data plane endpoint pattern** (required for services like Storage, Cosmos, Search):

```csharp
public class MyService(ISubscriptionService subscriptionService, ITenantService tenantService)
    : BaseAzureResourceService(subscriptionService, tenantService), IMyService
{
    private readonly ITenantService _tenantService = tenantService
        ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(tenantService));

    private async Task<MyDataPlaneClient> CreateDataPlaneClientAsync(
        string resourceName,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        var endpoint = GetResourceEndpoint(resourceName);
        var options = ConfigureRetryPolicy(AddDefaultPolicies(new MyClientOptions()), retryPolicy);
        options.Transport = new HttpClientTransport(TenantService.GetClient());
        return new MyDataPlaneClient(
            new Uri(endpoint),
            await GetCredential(tenant, cancellationToken),
            options);
    }

    private string GetResourceEndpoint(string resourceName)
    {

>         return _tenantService.CloudConfiguration.CloudType switch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        return TenantService.CloudConfiguration.CloudType switch
```

```powershell
[CmdletBinding()]
param (
    [Parameter(Mandatory)] [hashtable] $DeploymentOutputs,
    [Parameter(Mandatory)] [hashtable] $AdditionalParameters
)
Write-Host "{Toolset} post-deployment setup completed."
```

Validate: `az bicep build --file tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}/tests/test-resources.bicep`

### 3b. Live Test Class

File: `tests/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests/{Toolset}CommandTests.cs`

```csharp
public class {Toolset}CommandTests(ITestOutputHelper output, TestProxyFixture fixture, LiveServerFixture liveServerFixture)
    : RecordedCommandTestsBase(output, fixture, liveServerFixture)
{
    [Fact]
    public async Task {Resource}{Operation}_ReturnsExpectedResult()
    {
        var result = await CallToolAsync(
            "{toolset}_{resource}_{operation}",
            new()
            {
                ["subscription"] = SubscriptionId,
                ["resource-group"] = ResourceGroupName,
            });

        Assert.NotNull(result);
        var items = result.Value.AssertProperty("items");
        Assert.Equal(JsonValueKind.Array, items.ValueKind);
    }
}
```

### 3c. Record and Verify

```powershell

> # Record

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 # Deploy test resources (provisions infra + generates .testsettings.json)
 eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 `
   -TestResourcesDirectory tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}
 
 # Record tests
 dotnet test tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests `
   --filter "FullyQualifiedName~{Resource}{Operation}"
```

>  # Deploy test resources (provisions infra + generates .testsettings.json)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create assets.json

Create `assets.json` if it doesn't exist:

```json
{
  "AssetsRepo": "Azure/azure-sdk-assets",
  "AssetsRepoPrefixPath": "",
  "TagPrefix": "Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests",
  "Tag": ""
}
```

 # Deploy test resources (provisions infra + generates .testsettings.json)
```

> $settings = @{ TestMode = "Record"; SubscriptionId = "<sub>"; TenantId = "<tenant>";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>                ResourceGroupName = "<rg>"; ResourceBaseName = "<base>" } | ConvertTo-Json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- **Data plane operations** → `Task<List<MyModel>>`
- **Write operations** → `Task<MyResultModel>`

```csharp
public interface I{Toolset}Service
{
    // Resource Graph read operation
    Task<ResourceQueryResults<MyModel>> GetResourcesAsync(
        string? myOption,
        string subscription,
        string? resourceGroup = null,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);

    // Data plane operation (returns simple List)
    Task<List<MyDetail>> GetDetailsAsync(
        string resourceName,
        string subscription,
        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
}
```

File: `src/Services/{Toolset}Service.cs`

Choose base class:
 - **Operations that need Resource Graph (ARG) queries:** inherit `BaseAzureResourceService`
 - **All other operations (ARM, data plane):** inherit `BaseAzureService`
 
 > `BaseAzureResourceService` extends `BaseAzureService` — neither is
 > inherently read-only or write-only. The distinction is whether you
 > need ARG querying functionality.

> - **Write operations (ARM):** inherit `BaseAzureService`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    : RecordedCommandTestsBase(output, fixture, liveServerFixture)
{
    [Fact]
    public async Task {Resource}{Operation}_ReturnsExpectedResult()
    {
        var result = await CallToolAsync(
            "{toolset}_{resource}_{operation}",
            new()
            {
                ["subscription"] = SubscriptionId,
                ["resource-group"] = ResourceGroupName,
            });

        Assert.NotNull(result);
        var items = result.Value.AssertProperty("items");
        Assert.Equal(JsonValueKind.Array, items.ValueKind);
    }
}
```

### 3c. Record and Verify

```powershell
 # Deploy test resources (provisions infra + generates .testsettings.json)
 eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 `
   -TestResourcesDirectory tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}
 
 # Record tests
 dotnet test tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests `
   --filter "FullyQualifiedName~{Resource}{Operation}"

dotnet test tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests `
  --filter "FullyQualifiedName~{Resource}{Operation}"

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### 3b. Live Test Class

File: `tests/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests/{Toolset}CommandTests.cs`

```csharp
public class {Toolset}CommandTests(ITestOutputHelper output, TestProxyFixture fixture, LiveServerFixture liveServerFixture)
    : RecordedCommandTestsBase(output, fixture, liveServerFixture)
{
    [Fact]
    public async Task {Resource}{Operation}_ReturnsExpectedResult()
    {
        var result = await CallToolAsync(
            "{toolset}_{resource}_{operation}",
            new()
            {
                ["subscription"] = SubscriptionId,
                ["resource-group"] = ResourceGroupName,
            });

        Assert.NotNull(result);
        var items = result.Value.AssertProperty("items");
        Assert.Equal(JsonValueKind.Array, items.ValueKind);
    }
}
```

### 3c. Record and Verify

```powershell
 # Deploy test resources (provisions infra + generates .testsettings.json)
 eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 `
   -TestResourcesDirectory tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}
 
 # Record tests
 dotnet test tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests `
   --filter "FullyQualifiedName~{Resource}{Operation}"

> $settings | Set-Content "tools\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}\tests\Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests\.testsettings.json"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

        string? tenant = null,
        RetryPolicyOptions? retryPolicy = null,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        var endpoint = GetResourceEndpoint(resourceName);
        var options = ConfigureRetryPolicy(AddDefaultPolicies(new MyClientOptions()), retryPolicy);
        options.Transport = new HttpClientTransport(TenantService.GetClient());
        return new MyDataPlaneClient(
            new Uri(endpoint),
            await GetCredential(tenant, cancellationToken),
            options);
    }

    private string GetResourceEndpoint(string resourceName)
    {
        return TenantService.CloudConfiguration.CloudType switch
        {
            AzureCloudConfiguration.AzureCloud.AzurePublicCloud =>
                $"https://{resourceName}.service.core.windows.net",
            AzureCloudConfiguration.AzureCloud.AzureChinaCloud =>
                $"https://{resourceName}.service.core.chinacloudapi.cn",
            AzureCloudConfiguration.AzureCloud.AzureUSGovernmentCloud =>
                $"https://{resourceName}.service.core.usgovcloudapi.net",
            _ => $"https://{resourceName}.service.core.windows.net"
        };
    }
}
```

> Anti-patterns:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Patterns and anti-patterns:
```

```

Validate: `az bicep build --file tools/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}/tests/test-resources.bicep`

### 3b. Live Test Class

File: `tests/Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests/{Toolset}CommandTests.cs`

```csharp
public class {Toolset}CommandTests(ITestOutputHelper output, TestProxyFixture fixture, LiveServerFixture liveServerFixture)
    : RecordedCommandTestsBase(output, fixture, liveServerFixture)
{
    [Fact]
    public async Task {Resource}{Operation}_ReturnsExpectedResult()
    {
        var result = await CallToolAsync(
            "{toolset}_{resource}_{operation}",
            new()
            {
                ["subscription"] = SubscriptionId,
                ["resource-group"] = ResourceGroupName,
            });

        Assert.NotNull(result);
        var items = result.Value.AssertProperty("items");
        Assert.Equal(JsonValueKind.Array, items.ValueKind);
    }
}
```

### 3c. Record and Verify

```powershell
# Create assets.json

Create `assets.json` if it doesn't exist:

```json
{
  "AssetsRepo": "Azure/azure-sdk-assets",
  "AssetsRepoPrefixPath": "",
  "TagPrefix": "Azure.Mcp.Tools.{Toolset}.Tests",
  "Tag": ""
}

>  eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 `

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

# Deploy
 eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 `
```
